If you carefully go through this my first tutorial, I told you how we created my client.
So my client is just going to fetch the data.
And if you are, this is very important part for the fetching data.
It's very small code as you can see and I'm using do post and do great method.
As you can see, these are the override methods and you can check here in inferred annotations available
everything you can check here.
So this is related to male client part and why I created two methods here do it is just going to create
a connection and getting the data.
It's my dependency between undo post is to handle everything and request and response.
So now what I'm going to do, I'm going to tell you what is the same type part here.
So hope you can see this.
So SMTP is basically simple mail transfer protocol in the world of Internet.
If you have seen there are a lot of many protocols for chatting, then normal wave surfing.
Also, if you're looking that http on when you are also there is http and http.
So these are also protocols while doing or providing information on the network.
So these are related to the networking protocols.
But let me go to the deep into this a little bit.
So what is the protocol?
Just like a standard thing.
If you have seen there are a lot of applications only available on the Internet.
Like nowadays you can call to an Internet also, which is basically VoIP or is through Internet protocol.
Also there is voice also, but for that purpose you cannot use one single stream for that.
So to maintain the what we can say logic behind this, then maintain the ethics of internet and everything.
Protocols are made.
So protocol is nothing.
But there are a set of rules, there are a set of layers, there are like header files, everything
are mentioned already in the protocols.
So I'm not going to go into the TV part of this.
I'm going with our context, also with project context.
So every email application available, no.
On the Internet, you just simply.
So there are SMP servers available on the Internet.
Also, a SMTP server is basically just transferring the mail, simple mail transfer protocol.
So these are servers which is providing the SMTP function over the Internet.
So Gmail is we are going we can use for that purpose, which are some SMTP ports and a SMTP address.
Similarly you can use any other is empty between three services is also available.
You can use that.
So it's a program used to sending message from one computer user based email to another address.
So if you know the email address or specified, you can go to that part also.
But remember, while sending email, it's not like sending one email service to another email service.
You can send email from Gmail service to Yahoo mail also, or you can check for Outlook mail to Gmail.
Also you can send from anywhere.
Similarly, for that purpose, we need one email or SMP server so it provides mail exchange between
users from same or different computers, which also supports.
So sometimes you can see you can send your own mail.
So there's nothing more complicated in that part.
So you can send single message, you can send text, voice, video, graphics.
Yet I'm considering only text only because we are going to create application for video, voice and
graphics.
Also, we need to handle that files and everything.
So it's moving to more complex part for that purpose.
So instead of this, I'm mostly focused on text because we can handle strings easily in Java.
It can also message on the outside of the internet.
Also, if now consider your internet as a LAN portal local area network, you are instead of putting
on local radio network, you can send to other people also.
So this is just short mo thing here.
User a user.
We both are using mailing systems.
So user a user mailing system empty is just email client and it will go to the internet.
This mail gateway it will use and it will go to the another system.
So how this SMTP works actually.
So this is all the things build this which is in the rectangular part of the SMTP so you can see so
in SMTP works on the host and port method of the host is basically address and everything.
It's going to work.
So what is our application is going to work here is very simple JSP page or web view.
Our server is going to publish our Web view, our Java program.
What is going to do is it is going to.
Well that JSP page is also it will asks for that text also.
So let me do one thing.
You can put this as this also.
This is also correcting your.
Like it is going to go through this and it is going to do as zero.
So now let me tell you this.
What is this?
So you cannot see like this.
Also, it is going through the server, only it will handle the text field.
This Java programming is going to a SMTP server which is going to find the send mail to give a node
you can use authentication.
Fields also required the username and password to connect that SMTP.
I'm using your gmail service.
So this is it about SMTP.
We are going to perform here.
So if you understood this, let us move with our email application part.
So we already created this.
So I need to create an email message here.
So let me copy this thing.
Make me copy this e-mail message.
And what I'm going to do is the email or mail package only.
I'm going to create a new class.
So you can see here new.
Let me create one.
I already copied this part.
Let me paste this email message.
Plus hit enter the default class we'll create for you so you can cook.
So we created this, but we haven't mentioned anything here.
So as you can.
As soon as you created this, it is now showing you but we haven't created said to this all things are
here.
So let me go with this.
So what I needed is your private string.
I needed some packages.
Also, I needed.
So I needed more things here.
So.
Let me add one by one to address private schooling.
It's my first requirement to message.
And let me do one thing.
Let me set the model.
Small because I hear the kids.
Then what I needed is from my address, also
from Addis.
So I'm going to mention here from Addis, but.
Or like for handling any purpose I need this from anyhow.
I'm going to put this as you know.
So why I'm mentioning earlier, if I'm not mentioning it, will assume as not null by default.
So there may be some error cases or anything you can do then.
CC address, BCC address you can add here or I'm going to add it.
So.
CC and CC address.
So let me do it first.
I'm not.
Focusing on this part because doing a carbon copy in which this things let me control this just for
the opening of the line.
We can use that shortcut.
So these for string CC and these are this important thing is for message and everything here.
Remember, for this purpose I need all the things here which is basically.
Subject.
And message.
But again, it's private string.
Subject is important not.
And similarly for.
Message.
So now we are done with this.
So but now we need to check whether the type messages is HTML.
If you are putting HTML or text, if you are using HTML, it will show the HTML page.
As you know.
So I need to do this.
So we could kill x html slash h html mail.
So for that purpose, I need to specify three things.
So let me just copy these things because I don't want to focus on this.
Okay?
So we are done with this, but we are remaining with some.
So let me do tell you, I'm using static here because these are the statistics here.
Even if the message and everything.
So these are very important things here.
So let me add some methods here, which is basically string gate to string to.
So if.
Let me check whether it's.
So.
You can check whether they're adding nice metals.
Now they are added.
So let me tell you how the things are added here.
Otherwise, you may get confused here.
So let me tell you how I added some things.
These get to everything.
So let me just.
And what they did so well.
I don't want to focus on gate and set methods.
What you can do in your area, press or insert or your shortcut key on your keyboard.
For me it's all ten insert.
You will get generate operator here go to get trend setter and thirds press control and choose for these
things and it will specify for these things all upper nodes these things hit enter.
Now you got all the things here.
Now what are you going to do?
You can change this according to your purpose.
And what is you are going to use here?
You can change it.
So these are the great CC from methods you can check.
So you can change it according to your part.
It's not compulsory, but if you want to change, you can change it.
Here.
So we are mentioned this, but we are remaining with set message type.
Said message and everything get message type also then email utilities meaning let me tell you what
is in that thing in the later part.
So let us go through this.
What is going to do here?
Basically email message.
So if you look at this part, this is set, subject set and it is going to put here.
But what is going to work here like get to get to is for getting that to is for putting in this to similarly
get from this and from to do this get cc to get cc set cc similarly.
So these are some important I'm putting here.
And what I don't want to put this again and again so it will take care of me.
I'd put that part for me instead of typing it again and again.
So now we are done with this part.
So.
This is the e mail.
So what is going to handle this?
Handling the data.
Email message is going to handle our data as this email client.
Mail client is going to fetch data.
Email message is going to handle the data.
And it's going to create some methods to handle it later as our email application is going to use here.
So I can refer to the name as mail service.
Or let me check here what is in my name.
It's basically email utility.
So email utility is going to work here as sending service for my application.
So in further videos, what I'm going to create, I'm going to create email utility.
So once email utility done, we can perform the email action or we can say we can send an email election
after that, but I'm going to handle some emails.
So handling email is like fetching the emails is quite a tough job in Java because sometimes there may
be media files or anything.
So for that purpose we need to file handling and everything matter.
But sending message is very easy and it's very helpful while sending, but because for the fetching
the data it's very easy or you can see easy job but while sending there may be handshaking errors or
anything so we will check that and we are going we will create one email utility class which is going
to have some said email function also.
So this is just to handle data and that's it.
We are going to perform here.
Thank you.
Hope you understand this.